stupidity is real and one of the
stereotypes about armchair intellectuals
is that they spend their time shaking
their fists at the television set and
feeling frustrated and disappointed at
the stupidity of the mainstream media
the stupidity of the type of information
that's the most readily available to our
fellow man this is obviously starett's
have the people like Woody Allen quite
intentionally made fun of I think it's
something most Western intellectuals are
aware of as a pattern of thinking I
remember I talked to one friend or
frenemy of mine about Cambodia and in
that conversation you know he was
shocked by a list of facts that you know
kind of presented in the course of the
conversation and he immediately fell
into this kind of shaking his fist
angrily at the mainstream press saying
sort of how was it possible he lived his
life without knowing this stuff and this
shows the problem that he's been we
ranting about all his life Noam
Chomsky's another example that add to it
and he was really surprised when I
replied in a really Socratic way I asked
him why he thought this so well what are
you talking about why would that you
know well what do you expect
um I both sincerely do not expect you
know the mainstream press in Canada to
take an interest in and do original
research on Cambodian politics past
present or future nor do I expect it to
be easy for a white Western
english-speaking intellectual to find
out about this stuff now on the other
hand the real barriers to learning about
it are not that high you know the Google
search doesn't have to go that deep you
know yeah you may have to actually go to
a library you may have to spend some
time searching for the information but
in English as a language it's always
impressive how much there is that's
available I mean on Cambodia some of the
most shocking facts I remember I was
able to back up just by searching the
the transcript of debates in the British
House of Parliament it's not secret
information these are things publicly
stated in Parliament and
England and that now you can get almost
instantly through digital media through
through the internet and so on so I
never felt hard done by that way and I
never thought the appropriate way to
respond to these things was we're saying
oh the problem is these idiots in the
media if only you know if only the
newspapers were controlled by people who
happen to agree with my point of view
and I still do not feel this way now in
looking at you know what's on YouTube on
what's on social media it seems to me
completely natural that people are much
more interested in diet and exercise
than they are in politics in Cambodia
and by the way I mean recent politics in
Cambodia are still extreme are still
shocking are still worth knowing about
do a Google search for 2013 Cambodia
election I think even the Wikipedia
article I haven't seen to a compete
article for a few years the Parliament
Sina since 2013 but even the Wikipedia
article in that means users will give
you a sense that wow something really
significant and bizarre happened in
world politics in Cambodia in 2013 and
almost nobody in the Western world paid
attention to it for me I'm okay with
that up to a point I'm not okay with it
when I meet someone who's a professor is
supposed to be an expert in Cambodia
then I think hey you should know you
should be engaged in what's going on but
short of that I just do not expect my
fellow vegans to share my interest or my
fellow Western intellectuals or my
fellow human beings it doesn't surprise
me at all that this stuff is not
mainstream and I don't think you're
stupid for ignoring it I also would not
for example accuse you of being a racist
because you you failed to take an
interest in this and that has been a big
trope here on vegan YouTube is you are a
racist because you have not made a
statement on your youtube channel about
this interest that matters this issue
that matters to me this this political
issue that's that's crucial to what's
going on to me and again whether that's
you know New York versus London or you
know Cambodia versus Canada that's
that's a peculiar hypocrisy built into
our our situation here yes
everyone who's failed to comment on the
Cambodian election problem you are a
race
ridiculous um you know now I have on the
other hand drawn attention to these
really strange omissions where the
problem isn't that this the problem
isn't that something is not popular the
problem is the total absence of comment
the total paucity of comment and you
know the choice to ignore the the
military dictatorship in Thailand when
so many of these vegan youtubers have
been living in Thailand have had a big
part of their life and their movement
and their supposed advocacy talent that
to me is shocking
it's sure is shocking the word shocking
suggests like short term but still to
this day that's a problem and when I
first talked about that let's say it was
a year ago I forget how long ago that
was now um many vegans agreed with me
through email or Facebook messages or
Twitter messages wrote to me saying yeah
you know you're right this is really
important and it's kind of amazing that
none of the vegans connected Thailand
talked about this stuff you know when
some cared more about the issue of
democracy versus military to ship and
some cared more about human rights
issues and sex trafficking or other
political issues that are more concerned
to them personally in Thailand but now
in the years since then some of these
same people who wrote to me have gone to
Thailand and they did the same BS as
everyone else there's a cat who wears a
mask on camera called vegan revolution I
know he agreed with what I said about
Thailand at the time he didn't he didn't
yet hate me he was more or less a friend
of mine online at the time and he wrote
messages back and forth to me you know
with his own opinions and in agreement
and obviously with his own perspective I
know he agreed those were those were
important issues I was talking about and
he agreed with the criticism of the the
shortcomings of other youtubers who go
to Thailand and do nothing but ride
their bike up a mountain namely Deutsche
Tap want one particular mountain and
produced this kind of candy corn
journalism let's use the word journalism
for kicks huh because none of this is
journalism but they provide this you
know cotton candy vlogging of no real
substance um but when he went to
Thailand look what he did I
was as bad as anyone else or even worse
he produced nothing of substance nothing
of you know political relevance or what
have you and I think his audience would
have been looking for it you know he's
not a health and fitness guru he's not a
beauty blogger I think probably his
audience would have really appreciated
if he'd made the effort to do what he
seemed to agree was necessary and
worthwhile in in making this discourse a
little bit deeper and broader now if
you've watched my most recent videos
I've commented recently on what's called
the beef ban in India okay so I mean
like like everything that's that that's
the way it's phrased in headlines the
beef ban if you're gonna google it those
are the terms to search for this was a
huge news story in 2015
huge now I googled this before and after
posting my own video and you know did a
search you know for example after my
video was posted I searched for vegan
beef ban you know beef fan in quotation
marks and then plus the word India and I
had to do it again without India to get
more results and you know if I set the
time frame to just the last month then
my own video was in the top search
results just absurd and there was
nothing else and the searches before I
posted you know my comments again
there's just nothing this is a huge
story again you don't have to have an
interest in India if you're even a
little bit vegan or vegetarian you would
have noticed this covered in the Western
press in discussions of a politics of
any kind partly because some people got
murdered you know that's the sort of
thing that makes headlines sort of thing
gets in the newspapers and you know
partly because it's a really interesting
chapter of the world's history but
throughout 2015 and 2016 again I'm not
complaining that the most readily
accessible sources don't talk about this
stuff it makes sense to me complete that
more people are interested in diet
exercise beauty etc more people are
interested in gossiping about Hollywood
actors okay fine that's going to be the
majority but where is the minority where
is the intellectual call
just even politically awake politically
savvy you don't even have to be an
intellectual where is the politically
savvy minority within veganism and again
that's that's how I feel but the issue
with Thailand or all these other things
of course going to the beach wearing a
bikini all this stuff of course it's
going to be more popular than talking
about politics but the politics should
be more than zero you know and it's
disturbing to me how this stuff has
disappeared
another issue in recent videos here it's
genuinely disturbing to me the extent to
which discussion of domestication
has completely disappeared and you know
cuddling domesticated pets is now the
sort of central symbolic gesture of
veganism online and fifteen years ago it
was really the opposite it was
opposition to domestication I can
remember used to be the people in
ecology would make it clear like well we
have this cat and we keep it as a house
pet because it was rescued from a
shelter and this others cat but in
principle we oppose treating cats this
way and this isn't how a cat's supposed
to live and this isn't how a chicken is
supposed to live and so on these are
supposedly aware where the moral
baseline was to look at how this animal
lived in the wild where it was not
dependent on a human hand to provide it
with food but where it fed itself and
lived on its own term to when it lived
and died on its own terms in the wild
that animal rights per se was not based
on a model of human beings providing
welfare to all animals it was on
recognizing the dignity of animals
existing in the wilderness of course
that gets very dicey when you talk about
big animals like elephants because they
really do come into conflict with humans
and you know elephants and bears and
what-have-you
anyway there are a lot of issues that
are really worth talking with there
which again I haven't seen even once now
it's always weak to make an argument out
of an absence right but during the last
year one of the reasons why I've watched
so many vegan videos on YouTube is that
a foreign thing I eat at home very often
at my books out I'm doing work I do
indeed put bananas into a blender and
then for 15 minutes I'm drinking bananas
out of my blender and I'm watching vegan
videos on YouTube and then when I stop
were here at the gym and started working
out at home then also I would watch even
more vegan commentary on YouTube because
I would play lectures you know on
veganism and animal rights while I was
lifting weights which I didn't do before
obviously when I was working in a gym so
this is more time it's something I've
been doing you know in between other
activities little bits of time this way
but I I really have during the last year
like 2015 early 2016
I really am aware of what is and is not
being discussed on vegan YouTube on the
vegan internet and as I say I am NOT
hating on idiots
I'm not it's it's natural that stupid
people especially good-looking stupid
people are gonna dominate the majority
of what's going on especially if sorry
especially good-looking and especially
if they're entertaining if you're stupid
in a funny way you know if you drive
your bicycle into a wall and you record
yourself having the accident you laugh
about it afterwards obviously that can
get millions of views on YouTube and
that's human nature and it's always been
that way it's always gonna be that way
I I don't have any hate in my heart
against these folks I don't even have
any hatred for the people who attack and
insult me plenty of whom are already
'its and pretty much identify themselves
as such
oh come out and and give a preparatory
remark saying well I'm an idiot but you
know a man you got your struggles in
life and I got mine I really do I really
have sympathy across the board and I'm
not that Woody Allen stereotype of the
intellectual who's full of resentment
about you know what's not being talked
about on the top shelf
readily available information I don't
need to see you know the Cambodian
elections on the front page of a
Canadian newspaper I think it's
ridiculous to expect that and I don't
need to see these issues in veganism you
know on the front page of YouTube put it
that way but I need to see them
somewhere it is disturbing to me that
this stuff and not that it fails to be
the majority but that the minority is
absent and yeah you know I do get a lot
of fan mail and a lot of it's from older
people who've been involved in animal
rights for more than ten years and what
they're saying is why is nobody talking
about this stuff some of them say they
gave up watching YouTube entirely
because of how shallow and apolitical
the material was and their sense of
exasperation and incomprehension at
what's happened to veganism and animal
rights I guess in the last five years or
ten years or what have you
um and you know I give you one example
one guy wrote in agreeing with me
specifically on the dietary information
you know my criticism I cry teak of them
during Ryder and freely and he wrote in
he said look he's a fully qualified
nutritionist and I think his university
diploma was in biology of some kind of
sorry I forget which which discipline
within biology so he's both a
nutritionist and has university
credentials in biology and he was saying
that he's been waiting so long to hear
someone say the really basic things that
I said um if you've seen the videos you
know once aha
but part of the problem is I could ask
him in my reply why didn't you say it
you're the guy with the grimace I'm not
I'm not a nutritionist I'm not a health
coach I don't do any work of this kind
and I don't have the kind of academic
background that this guy does so why
didn't you take it on you know and this
also is is part of the problem only a
certain personality type in general gets
on camera
this guy wrote but I think he's highly
intelligent and as I say highly
qualified and what-have-you but he
obviously doesn't have the combination
of personality traits the mean one of
which normally is seeking Fame but also
sometimes just stupidity that gets
people to come on camera and make fools
of themselves and I don't know how
fun and talk about their breakup with
their girlfriend or boyfriend and do all
the things that makes YouTube a lively
and energetic place to be and of course
I can sympathize I have no idea I'm
applying for jobs right now I've been
doing a lot of job interviews if you
guys noticed there were a couple videos
where I was wearing a suit on camera
that was because I did a job interview
by Skype
immediately after I was sitting there
waiting for the Skype interview and when
I recorded that it's very possible that
I would stop using YouTube for six
months or a year depending on what the
next job I get is I can completely
understand you know professional real
world reasons why people aren't coming
on and talk about this stuff
but even when I search for text-based
articles I did really extensive google
searching for any any comments on the
beef ban any vegan response to that to
what's going on in India in English of
course and there is shockingly little
I'm gonna provide two more links below
this video just because et is really
interesting if you look at these two
links before that below this video I
think you'll just even just glance at
them you'll ask yourself the same
questions I did which is just oh well
this is something really interesting and
really relevant that vegans ought to be
talking about and we're not um so again
I totally accept him what the majority
is gonna do we do have to now question
the silence of the minority to provide
the other aspects of the discourse and
I'll just add one point of disagreement
with some of my biggest fans
a lot of people write to me with the
concern that meat eaters will judge
vegans by the most high-profile people
we've got many of whom are idiots and
the way I've described many of whom are
whatever good-looking and entertaining
but fundamentally stupid and don't have
a lot to say and what have you and I
think we've got to get over that I think
that's a real misconception if you think
about it I mean it would be a false
optic to say that African Americans have
a huge problem because the most famous
African Americans at any time are not
intellectuals are not scientists are not
even Paulette
but our entertainers rappers singers
athletes or what have you
that is just a feature that applies to
every ethnic group in every political
faction I don't know who's the most
famous Democrat who's the most famous
Jew I mean Judaism is even though
Judaism has famoust electrodes
associated with it at any given time the
most famous Jew is going to be somebody
like Seinfeld it's not going to be an
intellectual or a politically important
figure and likewise I don't think it's a
problem that the most famous and the
most prominent voices for veganism may
be people who are good looking but vapin
people who are ought to know actors
models athletes or what-have-you
as I say my concern is not the
shallowness of the majority
it's the Silence of the minority